    (c) Copyright 2002 by Computer

NAME
    cvsreport.pl - Report changes in CVS

SYNOPSIS
     cvsreport.pl
            -co

            -root RootPath
            -dir RepositoryPath

            -from Tag|Date
            -to Tag|Date

            -show files,numrev,diff,add,del
            -sort name|numrev|diff|add|del

            -html
            -rawfile RawFileName

            -help
            -fmthelp text|html|man
            -debug Level
            -verbose

DESCRIPTION
    For a given list of CVS directory names (relative to the CVSROOT),
    generate a summary report, for the number of lines that have changed
    between the specified CVS version.

    Report the total number of lines across all files, in the directory
    (recursively), that were: deleted or added.

    For each file in each dir., list the number of lines: deleted or added.
    (-show files)

    Select the revision from/to range by: tags or dates. (-to, -from)

    Output an HTML report. (-html)

    Also output a file with the raw report values represented as Perl hash
    variables. This will be useful for debugging and for writing other
    reporting scripts. (-rawfile)

OPTIONS
    -co If the files are already checked out, and you are cd'ed into the
        directory that you want for the report. If this option isn't given,
        then "rlog" will be used (i.e. there is no need to checkout the
        files).

        Note: this should not be a "development" directory, i.e. no files
        should be modified, so that "cvs update" will always update all
        files.

    -root RootPath
        Specify the CVSROOT directory. ":ext:" can be used, but the CVS_RSH
        env. var. will need to be defined before the script is run.

        Default: use the value in CVS/Root, else use the CVSROOT env. var,
        else error.

        This option is Ignored if "-co" is used.

    -dir RepositoryPath
        "RepositoryPath" is a directory name, relative to CVSROOT. More than
        one -dir can specified.

        This option is Ignored if "-co" is used.

    -from Tag|Date
        Earliest date or tag. If "yesterday" is used, then a date 24 hours
        before now will be used. Default: version 1.1 (BASE) for all files.

    -to Tag|Date
        Latest date or tag. If "today" is used, then this implies HEAD.
        Default: HEAD

        If the "-co" option is used, then the current directory will be
        updated to this date or tag.

    -html
        Specify this option to output the HTML formatted report.

    -show files,numrev,diff,add,del
        This option controls what is shown in the HTML report. One or more
        of these options can be specified.

        files - show the individual files, rather than just the directories.
        If "files" isn't on the show list, then the number of changed files
        will be output.

        numrev - show the number of revisions.

        diff - show the number of lines added plus the number of lines
        deleted.

        add - show the number of lines added.

        del - show the number of lines deleted.

        Default: numrev,diff,add,del

    -sort name|numrev|diff|add|del
        This option will define the sort column. Only one can be specified.
        Note: if the column isn't shown (see -show), the results could be
        confusing.

        If two numbers are equal, then the names will be used as a secondary
        sort key.

        Default: numrev

    -rawfile RawFileName
        If specified output the Perl variables, used to generate the report
        totals, to RawFile. This file's format will be suitable for
        inclusion in other Perl scripts (with eval).

    -help
        This help.

    -debug Level
        Level is a number between 0 and 100. If set to 0, debug is off
        (default: 0).

        Larger debug levels output more debug messages. The debug messages
        include the debug level number, so that you can see how to turn them
        off.

        Setting debug to 1 or larger, will also turn on the verbose option.

    -verbose
        If this is set, output verbose status messages.

RETURN VALUE
ERRORS
EXAMPLES
ENVIRONMENT
FILES
SEE ALSO
    cvs rlog

NOTES
    Date format:

     YYYY-MM-DD [HH:MM[Z]]

    Adding a Z to the time, will define the time as Zulu (UTC), otherwise
    local time will be used.

CAVEATS
    1. The directory list is limited to the same repository. I.e. the
    CVSROOT doesn't change.

    Enhancement: Support different CVSROOTs. However, tag names used in the
    ranges may not make sense across multiple repositories.

    2.Binary files (i.e. with the -kb option) will not be included in the
    report.

    Enhancement: If a binary file has been changed, the number of versions
    in the range could be reported in the detailed report.

    3. Changes are reported for single ranges. If a change history is
    desired, then a simple wrapper script can be used to step through the
    different ranges (use the output file of raw Perl variables).

    4. Summaries are limited to single directories. If multiple directories
    need to be merged into a single "category", then a wrapper script would
    be the best way of doing this.

    5. Files: added or deleted may be ignored.

    Enhancement: make a summary report of these files and list the file
    names in the detailed report. However for this to work, the script may
    need to run on the cvs server.

    6. "Moved" files can not be handled by cvsreport. This is a CVS
    limitation.

    7. Files with zero changes (i.e. add/del lines both equal zero), for the
    range, will not be listed.

    Enhancement: Add an option to set a limits on what files will be
    reported. For example: show all files with more than 1000 lines changed.
    Or show the files with changes in the top 10'th percential, for the
    specified range. Or show files with changes greater than the average
    number of changes seen, for the specified range.

    8. If "rlog" is not supported with you version of CVS, then the "-co"
    option must be used.

DIAGNOSTICS
    See the -debug option. For minimal debug info, use:

            -debug 1

BUGS
    * If CVSROOT can't be found or accessed, the script silently does
    nothing.

    * -rawfile is not implemented.

RESTRICTIONS
AUTHOR
    Bruce Rafnel

HISTORY
